Remember,
please hit like and subscribe for me.
Thank you so much. Okay, let's go. Hi
everyone. Today's Monday, January the
26th, and this is the Moneyball morning
report for the Benzinga Pro platform. We
are taking a look at the futures market
here with the E- mini S&P futures event.
We have charts by trendpider and gamma
flows by menthroq. A couple of things to
watch. This is yesterday's range
actually Friday's range. We gapped down
in the overnight and filled the gap in
the pre-market session. And right now
that is where we are battling. It is my
contention
that
the
close of a candlestick above 6941
close on the 30 minute gives us this
upside pressure event
below
this line at 6916. Maybe we'll make this
one
is this line. Yes, that's our VWAP. So,
I'm going to use the same VWAP region
5916 or something around there. If we
lose that ledge, I believe that sellers
are very likely to be more active.
If we hold the ledge above 6940,
I suspect buyers will become more
active. We can see that our uh point of
control is at 6944. That's where we
rejected the first time.
We could easily reject there the second
time as well. And so at
a second viewing, I would suspect
that what we are staring down
potentially
is a ceiling
that is round and about at 6956
and a floor at 6917.
So last night on uh market kickoff,
someone said there is no such thing as
resistance and support. it's all
algorithmic flow. I think that that's
sort of a disingenuous statement simply
because there are certain lines in the
sand and if you want to say is support
is something that never breaks or
resistance is something that never
breaks
then potentially
you could say obviously well obviously
that's wrong because those things break
all the time so they don't exist.
Not so right. We're not talking about
the laws of physics, the laws of
thermodynamics. We're just talking about
a line in the sand where a bunch of
people crowd around. So that's my two
cents on that. But I was sort of annoyed
by the commentary and so I can't help
myself. So there we go. Above 6917,
I suspect more bullish action.
be below 6956
we are caught in the range. What is
momentum? Slightly up. Where are we in
relation to the VW? We're above it.
We've had two days of essentially
sideways formations and we had a really
crummy weekend of news, both political,
geopolitical and um just your regular
fair drama around
weather. Okay. So I I would not be
surprised to watch this inventory event
completely give back. Now that being
said, we are holding the gap and holding
that gap says that our pullback into the
prior days low also gives us
opportunity. So you want to pay
attention sideways motion in the VWAP.
Look for the dips that bounce. Look for
the big bounces that fade. And don't dd
around in the middle unless you're
scalping.
Let's go to the ENQ.
I spent way too long on the ES. I'm
sorry. So, here's the ENQ.
This is Thursday's motion. And you can
see the same sort of thing. The gap fill
event
25,68050.
We've already failed it. However, we are
bouncing off a supply zone that sits
near 25,580.
That gives us upper edges.
My suspicion is that
we fade based on the amount of inventory
that is long. And that is sort of like
everybody. Now, this occurred at 4:00
a.m. That's London's open.
We'll see what's going on there. Right,
the gap for the opening range candle
is really where the wick is.
So, I think I'll make that the line to
watch on this particular chart. Now,
could you buy it right there at 25,585?
You could. If it loses the edge, it's
much better to let it lose the edge and
recover and take the long because then
you know where all the buyers are
sitting. [snorts] If you take the long
here before the buyers tell you where
they are ready to defend, this could
fall all the way down. And if you don't
have proper risk controls, you're going
to be up a creek without a paddle. You
know what I mean? So
losing
25,529
suggests a continuation of downward
flow.
Where is the call wall up here? 25,800.
Put wall still at 25,000. Here's what's
very interesting about what's going on.
Techheavy week in earnings.
Most of the traders that are positioned
in options are bullish in general into
this tech heavy week, but they are
hedging in the cues, meaning they're
taking put positions in the cues as a
hedge just in case their long positions
that they've put in the individual
stocks don't work. that's likely to make
this messy. But after earnings, they're
going to unwind those puts if price
action does well, and that's going to
give us another lift to the upside. So,
we'll see. All right, let's take a peek
at RTY.
Very big move down on Friday.
very big, but it filled a gap and trying
to hold the edge. Um, if you were with
me on market kickoff, you saw that I
took a long here at that 2660. I just
liked it. It looked good. Filling of the
gap. 2670 was my target and it did that.
It actually ran up into just shy of
2680.
If we do not hold this 2670,
it seems fairly likely
that we head south.
Holding above this 2670 gives us
to
2690.
maybe even the anchored VWAP of the
prior day 26.95.
But that is the ledge for upside
pressure. The interesting thing to note
will be how well the RTY holds its
updraft. If the ES and the NQ
fade,
I think it will follow suit. Um, that's
just my guess.
Let's go to micro Bitcoin.
So, as we saw
on Friday,
pretty big dip
in Friday's price pattern.
We bounced into old support
overnight at this 88,520
or so.
As long as we stay under there, there's
more selling pressure
below 87,000
that could accelerate. But we are seeing
liquidity continue to leave the market
and we measure that by the trend of
Bitcoin. It does not look good. But if
you are a Bitcoin bull, it needs to get
up over 88,500
to consider the move back into 90 and
then 92,000. Could it move there?
Absolutely. If it gets into the range of
the prior trading days,
look, we spent 1, two, three trading
days right in this range. They could
easily try to hold the edge.
Once it gets above 92, different things
start to happen in terms of further
acceleration. But at this juncture,
91,500 is about the storyboard high for
this particular cycle. What's below?
Well, we've got some demand about
85,000. That was a put wall way back in
the past. And so, we'll anticipate that
it could be a support zone here for the
traders in Bitcoin. Let's go to oil.
So
what we are looking at in oil is
I I I suspect that price action is going
to continue to be bullish energy
particularly oil. They're going to start
rotating more into these areas. Exxon
reports on Friday. We've got all kinds
of very interesting things of foot here.
But my
thought about why
I'm bullish oil has everything to do
with geopolitical unrest.
And it continues to build, my friends.
It does.
It really, really does. And so what we
want to watch for is a break and hold.
noticed if you were scalping pre-market
action in oil, you could have gotten in
at 6137 and then when it began to lose
the new high and started coming in
below that candlestick, you could have
gotten out. So, it's if
and then So, let some of us are pretty
confused on this one. So, let's go to
the one minute. Oh my. I think I gave
the chart too much to think about
crud. All right. So, here we are on the
one minute. Take a look. Here's our
6137.
Well, isn't that strange?
That price disappeared.
It's bizarre.
Nope. Well, we do know that the chart is
still in backwardation
from just looking at that. That's very
strange. The trigger here does not show
up. So,
let's go back here.
That is bizarre.
Look at this. This entire edge is not
Let me check another chart. Hang on. I
don't want to spiral into whatever. And
of course, you can advance that. No,
it's real. It's just not showing up on
the tighter time frames. Let's see if we
can see it on a five.
Yes. Okay. It's something wrong with
that one minute chart. It's wonky. So,
here we go. if it tests 6137
and
it pulls back and holds a higher low. So
now you're looking at here's the test,
here's the pullback into the edge of in
that same 5minute candle and then here's
the break to the north at 6137. You can
take the long and your stop would be
6131.
get it up into the zone and once it
starts giving back you have a decision
to make. So this if and then will look a
couple of different ways. It could be
nice big breakout and only the pullback
comes on the actual candle that made the
break and it continues to move. Or it
could be something like this that gives
you a test and it completely rejects,
never recovers.
And we're looking at something like that
here also. And I do have an alert at
$60.80
as the floor. So that's really what I
want you to think about for these
if and then formations. You have to look
for candlesticks to tell you that you're
moving in the right direction. All
right, let's go to gold. Oh, let's go to
silver.
Everybody wants to look at silver.
So, here we are staring down silver.
It's been a bit of a beast. Wait, did I
use the right silver contract right
there? Hang on.
Still here. All right. So,
let's get it. So, here's what we have.
We have a breakaway.
This is the gap. Okay. This is third
Friday and then this is tonight.
Breakthrough. huge. So, I'm going to
remove that old alert
and then create a new alert
says if I break through that one. Now,
this one I'm also going to remove that
alert, but I'm going to create another
alert that says 106.
So, if we come into 106, that's the
first place we're going to see buyers.
104 is the next floor below. You might
say, Enri, what about upward? Well, of
course, since we're in some kind of
massive upside event,
let's clone where they've been amassing
inventory.
And that to me looks like between
10660ish
to 10960. So about $3. That would put us
up at 112. and some change if we have a
measured move.
Over the weekend, Rick Rule, who is kind
of a famous metals guy, said that he
felt like the market was getting really
overheated and it was definitely time to
trim.
Let's see what happens there. The
midpoint in the line is somewhere around
maybe 111
even
somewhere around there for a break and
then the 112 to the next space. Dips are
clearly buy zones and you can use also
this 10836
if you're so inclined. It's definitely
tradable. It's not going crazy. So, it's
tradable, but you got to watch your
risk. You absolutely have to watch your
risk. So, top of the range 112.
We'll see how that looks
in general. Okay. All right. Let's take
a look at gold.
Gold also moving like a house of fire.
This zone at 5,025
is
a key support zone for today because
it's the top of the range before the
gap. Now, we know that this thing
sometimes doesn't fill gaps at all. And
that's its own uh thought event here.
Here's another one at 5,070.
That's a nice support edge. If you were
a betting man and you're trading tightly
at support and resistance, you could
look at 5,094.
If you want as a buy zone, the next
gamma line is 5150.
Notice where the call wall is. It's
still at 5,000. Put wall
for the zero DTE is still at 40. boot is
4,800 and the big foot wall is at 4700.
So they have not moved
uh their positions. What's happening
here is that the market makers and
people intent on buying this are they
have to accumulate because
you know they're underwater because
they've sold the calls for people who
are long the calls and whomever else is
short the calls they have to buy to
hedge.
What is the measured move event here?
Well, it's a little sticky. I don't know
that it's terrific,
but
it appears to be about
$20 wide,
which puts us up almost at 5160.
Wow, that's so shocking. All right,
finally, let's take a look at SPY.
This is Thursday and Friday's move.
We're sitting right in the middle of
this noise. It is so dramatically noisy.
Floor for the day to consider is $687.
Ceiling for the day to consider $691.
That is going to represent relative
resistance because it has for the two
days. But the break out could send us to
and then 695 with 700 at the top. And
the break down from 687
could send us to 685,
683,
681, and then 680.
What do we expect to see?
More sideways event. We've got a huge
tech week of earnings. We've got the
FOMC, even though they're probably not
going to do anything. And then there's
what's going to happen if Japan has to
intervene. I don't think that that's
trivial. So, we shall see. Anyway,
that's it for the morning, folks. I will
see you on the streets. Take care.